Abilities
Ability
Reduced Sleep
Renowned
Robust
Runecrafter
Shield Training
Shield Guard I
Shield Guard II
Skilled
Specialty
Weapon
Training
Sure-Footed
Thick Skull
Tireless
Tough
Unbreakable
Unremarkable
Untouchable
Wizened

Summary
You only need four (4) hours for a Worthwhile Rest
Gain recognition and assistance from others as well as
additional money
Gain one (+1) additional Stamina per Level
You may create Runework to imbue your magic into
various items
You are considered trained with shields
As an Action cancel one attack made against you in a
Round
Your Defensive Stamina Modifier costs are lessened
Gain four (4) additional Talent Points ⬧
You are now considered trained in all Specialty weapons
You cannot be knocked off your feet
You are immune to being Stunned and knocked
Unconscious, and can headbutt others to Stun them
Gain one (+1) additional Fatigued point per Level
Gain one (+1) additional Battered point per Level
Gain one (+1) additional Injured point per Level
You are often overlooked and rarely remembered
Gain +1 Defense
You gain a +1 to your Knowledge Attribute

Ability Descriptions
Each Ability is broken down by the following format:
Name
Prerequisite (Any requirements for the Ability are listed here and must be
met by the character to obtain that Ability. They may include a necessary
Class and/or requisite Abilities.)
Description of the Ability
The following is a complete list of all Abilities, in alphabetical order:

167

ATHIA –
Accurate I
Rogue
Each Stamina you spend to increase your Hit Check increases your result by two
(+2) instead of the usual one (+1).
Accurate II
Rogue, Accurate I
The Stamina cost to roll a Hit Check at Advantage, or to reroll a missed Hit Check
costs you two (2) Stamina. Additionally, the Stamina cost to automatically score
a successful Hit on a Target is only five (5) Stamina.
Active Caster
Mage
You are accustomed to being very active during your casting of Arcane magic.
Any Concentration Checks you need to make due to your own Actions are done
so at Advantage. Note: You do not gain that Advantage when the actions of
others cause you to make a Concentration Check (such as when you are struck in
combat).
Amalgamate I
Mage
No Art is meant to be static, and you have the skills to combine Arcane powers to
great effect. Choose two Arcane Arts. You can cast Spells that combine Spell
Effects from these two Arts.
Amalgamate II
Mage, Amalgamate I
As Amalgamate I, but you now can cast Spells that combine the Spell Effects from
any Arts you know.
Ambidextrous
General
You can use either hand equally. What you can do with one, you can do with the
other. Additionally, your Stamina costs to make Off-Hand Attacks with Light or
Medium weapons are reduced by one (-1).
Ambusher
Rogue
As a guerrilla fighter you know the sorts of places your enemies may hide. You
may take two Actions in any Round in which you have Surprised your enemies
(instead of the usual one Action). Any Checks stemming from these two Actions
are made at Advantage, as per the Surprise rules described in the Combat section.

168

Abilities
Anoint
Acolyte
Your Blessings are not confined to the living. With this Ability the Acolyte may
bestow their Bless upon an object, allowing its wielder to gain Advantage on their
next Check with the item. This Ability could be used on a weapon to grant
Advantage on its next Hit check, or on a healer’s kit to grant Advantage on the
user’s next Hermetics Check.
Arcane Conduit
General
You have a great knack for tapping into the Arcane aether. You gain one (+1)
additional Mana. Note: This Ability does not grant any benefits to one’s Arcane
Aptitude.
Arcane Mark
Rogue
You’ve discovered a cunning use for your Mana. By investing one (1) point of your
available Mana you can place an Arcane Mark upon a Target. This mark must be
created by touching your Target, but once done you always have a sense of the
Target’s direction and distance from you. You can remove this Arcane Mark at any
time, as a Free Action, and return that invested Mana to your pool.
Arcane Prowess
General
Your understanding of Arcane magic is better than most. You gain two (+2)
additional Arcane Aptitude. Note: This Ability does not grant any benefit to a
Character’s Mana.
Arcane Sensitive
Mage
You’ve always had a knack for sensing Arcane powers. You automatically (no roll
necessary) know when you are in the presence of Arcane Magic and what the
Focus of another Arcane Caster’s Spell is. You also make your Scholar Checks at
Advantage to determine how to activate a Runework item (see Runework in the
Magic section for further details). Additionally, you automatically know the Art
any Caster is using when casting Arcane magic. Finally, you can instantly identify
Enchanted Items just by touching them.
Armor Adept
Warrior
You know how to get the most out of your armor. Your armor’s Defense Value is
increased by one (+1).

169

ATHIA –
Artificer
Mage
Items of Arcane magic are longer lived in your possession. The number of uses an
Enchanted Item or a Runework item has is doubled while in your hands. Note:
This Ability does not double the number of uses the Enchanted Item or piece of
Runework may have, rather that the Mage effectively only uses half a use per
activation of the item.
Assassin I
Rogue
Your most precise strikes are your most deadly. Your successful Critical Hit does
+40 Damage rather than the normal +20 Damage.
Assassin II
Rogue, Assassin I
When you score a Critical Hit on a surprised or otherwise unsuspecting Target,
you kill them instantly. Targets with Health Tiers are reduced to the Downed Tier.
Augment Summoning
Mage
You summon exceptionally powerful creatures. Any creature summoned by you
is effectively one Challenge Level greater (+1).
Auto-Arcana
Mage
You have made one of your Spells nearly second nature. Choose one Spell in your
Grimoire. You may attempt to cast this Spell as a Free Action once per Encounter.
Avatar Of Air
Mage
As an exemplar of the Arcane powers of Air you have been empowered with the
following capabilities:
•

You can move at your normal rate of speed hovering just inches over
the ground. This does not preclude you from falling, nor taking damage
from a fall, but does mean you can traverse uneven ground (water,
lava, etc.) simply by gliding over it.
• You gain a bonus to your Defense of +1 versus any ranged missile attack
(arrows, bolts, spears, sing stones, etc.).
• You are impervious to the winds or magically created wind attacks.
Note: Only one Avatar Ability (Avatar of Air, Cosmos, Earth, Fire, or Water) may
be taken by a Character.

170

Abilities
Avatar Of Cosmos
Mage
As an exemplar of the Arcane powers of the Cosmos you have been empowered
with the following capabilities:
•

With a connection to an incredible Arcane power, you no longer find
yourself needing to sleep.
• By meditating you can connect your physical self with the infinity of the
universe, allowing you to better recover from wounds faster. Once per
day you may heal two points (2) of Injuries with four hours of
meditation.
• You can make a cosmic connection to one of your material items,
allowing them to slip through space and time. Only one connection may
exist at a time, but once it is made you can summon that item to you at
any time, instantly, as a Free Action.
Note: Only one Avatar Ability (Avatar of Air, Cosmos, Earth, Fire, or Water) may
be taken by a character.
Avatar Of Earth
Mage
As an exemplar of the Arcane powers of Earth you have been empowered with
the following capabilities:
•

Like the ageless rock of the land, you no longer age yourself. You are
not immortal, just no longer able to age.
• You gain a bonus to your Defense of +1 versus any melee attack
(weapons, fists, etc.).
• So long as your feet are on land you are impervious to being moved or
given the Prone State (see States for further information).
Note: Only one Avatar Ability (Avatar of Air, Cosmos, Earth, Fire, or Water) may
be taken by a character.
Avatar Of Fire
Mage
As an exemplar of the Arcane powers of Fire you have been empowered with the
following capabilities:
•

You can see the heat in all things, and as such gain a sort of thermal
vision that can allow you to see heat signatures at any time of day. You
therefore no longer suffer Disadvantage in the dark when confronting a
creature who generates their own body heat.
• You gain a bonus to any Hit check of +1.
• You are impervious to any extremes of heat or cold.
Note: Only one Avatar Ability (Avatar of Air, Cosmos, Earth, Fire, or Water) may
be taken by a character.
171

ATHIA –
Avatar of Water
Mage
As an exemplar of the Arcane powers of Water you have been empowered with
the following capabilities:
•

You can move at your normal Speed through water, and are unaffected
by currents, pressure, or other aspects of water. Water no longer
obstructs your vision, and you can see clearly underwater, penetrate
the thickest of fogs, or pierce the driving rain.
• You no longer suffer from hunger or thirst, sated by the endless Arcane
powers of water’s life.
• You can breathe water and remain indefinitely underwater.
Note: Only one Avatar Ability (Avatar of Air, Cosmos, Earth, Fire, or Water) may
be taken by a character.
Back-Strike
Warrior
You are very opportunistic when fighting with a balanced weapon. When using a
weapon with the Wieldy Designation you can make one additional attack as a Free
Action once per Encounter. This Attack has a weapon Damage of +1d6.
Backstabber I
Rogue
You take advantage of your unsuspecting foes. You automatically Hit (no need to
roll your Hit Check) and do maximum Damage (no need to roll Damage) against
any surprised or unsuspecting Target.
Backstabber II
Rogue, Backstabber I
As Backstabber I, but your attack is considered a Critical Success (+20 Damage)
along with your maximum Damage against any surprised or unsuspecting Target.
Battle Mage
Mage
Your magic thrives in battle. If you are successful with a Hit Check in combat, you
gain Advantage on your next Aptitude Check for the following Round.
Battle Mage II
Mage, Battle Mage I
As Battle Mage I but you now gain Advantage on all Aptitude Checks for the
remainder of the Encounter.
Battle Tested
General
You have faced death on more occasions than you can count. You gain one (+1)
additional Daring.
172

Abilities
Battle Thrall
Warrior
You thrive in a target rich environment. Whenever you are Outnumbered or
Overrun (see States in the Combat Section) you ignore all penalties due to being
Outnumbered or Overrun and gain Advantage on all Hit Checks.
Beneficent God
Acolyte
Your god is always there to assist those around you. You begin the game with one
additional (+1) Bless (for a total of 2) and gain an additional Bless every level
(rather than every other).
Blades Of Death
Warrior
Your ability to hurl the glaive at great speeds allows it to slice completely through
your enemies. Any weapon with the Returns Designation returns to you even if it
hits a Target.
Bladesman I
Rogue
A blade in your hand brings grievous wounds to your enemies. Any successful Hit
you land with a bladed weapon bestows Bleed: 1 to your Target (the Bleed State
is furthered described in the Combat section). This effect will stack with each
subsequent hit on any Target you have previously hit. For example, a second hit
on an already hit Target would have its Bleeding State elevated to Bleed: 2.
Bladesman II
Rogue, Bladesman I
Bladesman Bleed Table
As Bladesman I, but rather than
Level
Bleed Damage
doing 1 point of Bleeding to the
1-4
2
Target the degree of the Bleeding
State bestowed is based upon the
5-7
3
Level of the Character possessing
8-10
4
this Ability as shown in the
Bladesman Bleed Table. This effect will stack with each subsequent hit on any
Target you have previously hit. Therefore, a 5th Level Character would bestow
Bleed: 3 on a successful Hit against a Target. If that same Target is hit again, their
Bleeding State would increase to Bleed: 6.
Blessed I
General, Non-Acolyte, Non-Rogue
You possess the ability to enact Divine Interventions. You gain two (2) Favor plus
any Instincts Modifier you may possess. You may pick any Divine Intervention
Effect from any Divine Influence. You are limited in enacting only that one Divine
Intervention Effect. Your Holy Aura is 5’ radius per level as opposed to the normal
10’ radius per level for an Acolyte. Additionally, your Caster Level is considered 1
173

ATHIA –
level less than your character level (to a minimum of 1). Finally, you recover your
Favor through Prayer just as any Character with Favor would (see Prayer for
further information).
Blessed II
General, Blessed I
As Blessed I, but you now gain two (+2) additional Divine Intervention Effects
from the same Influence as Blessed I (for a total of 3). You also gain an additional
two (+2) Favor.
Blessed III
General, Blessed II
As Blessed II, but you now have access to all the Effects from your chosen Divine
Influence. You also gain an additional two (+2) Favor.
Blind Fighting
Warrior
You have trained without your sense of sight. You no longer suffer Disadvantage
while fighting in darkness, or with your vision impaired.
Block
Rogue
You have the skill to use your weapon against incoming attacks. As a Maneuver
you can block an incoming attack, offering you Damage Reduction equal to onehalf your Level (Round up).
Blood Magic
Mage
By giving up a portion of your own health and welfare you can make casting Spells
easier. For each 5 points of Damage you take you can lower the Difficulty of the
Spell you are attempting to Cast by one point (-1), to a maximum of three points
(-3).
Bolstered Magic
Mage
By tying up additional Mana during an Encounter, the Caster can create more
powerful Effects from their Spells. Only one Bolster can be applied per Encounter,
and once chosen, lasts for the duration of the Encounter. By tying up one (1) Mana
the Caster may choose one the following benefits to their Spell Effects for the
duration of the Encounter:
•

•
•
174

Chances of Spells spreading (Acid, Electricity, Flame, Geyser, etc.) are
increased by one (+1). For example, a one in four chance would become
a two in four chance.
Increase any Damage Resistance bonus by ½ Caster Level.
Increase any Defense bonus by one (+1).

Abilities
•
•
•
•

Increase any movement bonus by +25%.
Increase any size bonus by +25%.
Reroll any 1’s when determining a Spell’s Damage.
Transfer a Concentration Duration Spell to another Focus in range as an
Action.

Bonecrusher
Rogue
Your Critical Hits fracture or break the bones of your enemies. A successful Critical
Hit results in your Target having more difficulty pushing their attack. Your Target
suffers Disadvantage on any further Hit Checks unless healed. When used against
an opponent with health tiers, in addition to whatever Damage you bestow upon
them with the success of your Critical Hit, you also do a point of Damage directly
to their Injured Tier.
Born in Armor
Warrior
You are rarely without your armor. Your Stamina penalties for wearing armor are
reduced to zero (0).
Bounce Back
Warrior
If given just a moment, you’re able to rebound in combat. Once per encounter, if
you have not been targeted in a Round (no attacks attempted upon you), you
recover 1d4 plus your Level in Stamina.
Bred For Battle
Acolyte
Selecting this Ability allows you to immediately select an Ability from the
Warrior’s list of Abilities. For example, selecting the Bred For Battle Ability and
choosing the Warrior’s Born In Armor Ability would give you the Ability: Bred for
Battle: Born in Armor as a single Ability choice.
Brutal I
Warrior
You are a vicious opponent. You add your Level to all Damage rolls made. Note:
This bonus is applied in addition to a Warrior’s normal Damage bonus for his Class
and is not applied to Arcane or Divine Damage.
Brutal II
Warrior, Brutal I
In your hands, weapons are far deadlier. You gain additional abilities depending
on the Size of the weapon you are using. See the Brutal II Table for details.

175

ATHIA –
Brutal II Table
Weapon
Size
Light
Medium
Heavy

Brutal II Advantage
Gain one additional attack with your Light weapon per Round
Your weapon does +3d6 Damage instead of the usual +1d6
Your Targets must make an Easy (9) Endurance Check or be
knocked Prone with each attack.

Calculated Attack
Warrior
You are adept at making your attacks count. Once per Encounter your Stamina
costs to improve Damage are halved (round up).
Calculated Exposure I
Rogue
Choosing to forgo cumbersome armor, you remain light on your feet and are
better able to avoid incoming attacks. Your Defense is increased by two (+2)
when you are out of armor.
Calculated Exposure II
Rogue, Calculated Exposure I
As Calculated Exposure I, but rather than your Defense being increased by two
(+2), your Defense is increased by four (+4) when you are out of armor.
Charmed
Rogue
You never roll any Check at a penalty greater than Disadvantage. For example, if
your Character finds themselves under a Double or Triple Disadvantage penalty,
you simply roll your Check at Disadvantage.
Cheat Death
Rogue
When your character dies this Ability comes into action. You are immediately
returned to Down, still vulnerable to death, but avoid the loss of your Character.
This Ability may be used once per Encounter.
Child of the Moon
Acolyte
Your connection to the Divine is as much to the Moon as to Selene herself. With
proper prayer and veneration, Lady Moon can bestow her boons upon the
Acolyte:
•

176

Admonition: With but an hour of prayer the Acolyte becomes aware of
anyone seeking to do them harm while they rest. This watch lasts

Abilities
throughout the Acolyte’s rest and will stir them from slumber should
they be asleep.
• Inner Peace: Four hours of meditative prayer bestows a worthwhile
Rest upon the Acolyte.
• Quiet: For every hour of prayer the Acolyte gains four hours of absolute
silence. Nothing the Acolyte does makes a sound unless they choose to
make a sound.
Note: Only one “Child of…” Ability may be taken at a time.
Child of the Night
Acolyte
Your connection to the Divine is as much to the Night as to Erebos himself. With
proper prayer and veneration, the High Night can bestow his boons upon the
Acolyte:
•

Adumbration: For every hour of prayer the Acolyte gains four hours of
shadowed obscurity. The Acolyte appears as if engulfed in wispy
shadows and is considered in hiding unless they make noise or
otherwise make their presence known. All Stealth Talent Checks to hide
are made at Advantage.
• Spiritglow: For every hour of prayer the Acolyte gains four hours to see
the spirits of Athia. This ability does not allow the Acolyte to see in the
dark per se, but rather allows them to see the glow of spirits
surrounding them. This allows them to see their surroundings because
of the ambient glow of spirits in the area.
• Omen: Following an hour of prayer to the High Night, the Acolyte can
peer up into the stars above to see omens of events, people, or places
as determined by the GM.
Note: Only one “Child of…” Ability may be taken at a time.
Child of the Sun
Acolyte
Your connection to the Divine is as much to the Sun as to Illios himself. With
proper prayer and veneration, Lord Sun can bestow his boons upon the Acolyte:
•

•

Beacon: While the Acolyte prays, a ray of light can be cast forth as
bright as the sun. The intended target of the Beacon is basked in light
as grand as the size of the Acolyte’s Holy Aura, as far off as the light of
the sun may reach.
Clement: With an hour of prayer the Acolyte can cause the immediate
area of his Holy Aura to become mild and pleasant. Snow will melt,
dampness will evaporate, winds will calm, and heat waves will cool - but
only in the area where the prayer was conducted. This Clemency lasts
until the Acolyte steps out of the Clement area.
177

ATHIA –
•

Purify: With dedicated and uninterrupted eight hours of prayer, the
Acolyte can purge impurities from their system. When the Acolyte
begins their prayer, the effects of toxins, poisons, and disease
immediately cease. Should they complete their prayer undisturbed, any
toxins, poisons, or disease within their system is immediately
cleansed. Otherwise, if interrupted or disturbed, the effects of the
toxins, poisons, or disease continue from that point forward.
Note: Only one “Child of…” Ability may be taken at a time.
Child of the Triad
Acolyte
Your connection to the Divine is a connection to each of the gods. With proper
prayer and veneration, the Triad can bestow their boons upon the Acolyte:
•

Beacon: While the Acolyte prays, a ray of light can be cast forth as
bright as the sun. The intended target of the Beacon is basked in light
as grand as the size of the Acolyte’s Holy Aura, as far off as the light of
the sun may reach.
• Inner Peace: Four hours of meditative prayer bestows a worthwhile
Rest upon the Acolyte.
• Spiritglow: For every hour of prayer the Acolyte gains four hours to see
the spirits of Athia. This ability does not allow the Acolyte to see in the
dark per se, but rather allows them to see the glow of spirits
surrounding them. This allows them to see their surroundings because
of the ambient glow of spirits in the area.
Note: Only one “Child of…” Ability may be taken at a time.
Chosen Enemy I
Warrior
You have always had to deal with a great enemy. Choose a creature Family; you
gain a Hit bonus of one (+1) against any creature of that Family.
Chosen Enemy II
Warrior, Chosen Enemy I
As Chosen Enemy I, but rather than the +1 Hit bonus you now gain Advantage on
any Hit Checks against your chosen enemy Family.
Chosen Vessel I
Acolyte
You can use others as your divine conduit to enact Interventions. Once per Day
choose any target in your line of sight to be the center of your Holy Aura.
Chosen Vessel II
Acolyte, Chosen Vessel I
As Chosen Vessel I, but your Chosen Vessel may be any individual you know. Note:
It is up to the GM as to whether an individual is considered known to the Acolyte.
178

Abilities
Coalesce
Acolyte
You can combine the Influences of your god into greater and greater Divine
Interventions. You possess the ability to enact Divine Interventions that combine
Effects from all Influences you have access to.
Combat Casting
Mage
Maintaining your concentration in the thralls of battle is your specialty.
Concentration Checks provoked due to the Caster being successfully Hit are made
at one Difficulty Class easier (to a minimum of Easy). For example, if in the first
Round of combat the Caster is hit, the Caster will need to make an Easy
Concentration Check (this Check is not reduced below Easy). The second Round
the caster is Hit again, they will need to make another Easy Concentration Check
(this Check would normally be Average but is now reduced to Easy). If Hit again
in the third Round, the caster will need to make a Concentration Check against an
Average Difficulty (this Check would normally be Difficult but is now reduced to
Average).
Combat Conduit
Mage
Offering up your own personal energy gives you a much-needed edge when
attempting to pull off powerful Spells and Effects in battle. You may spend
Stamina to increase the total of your Arcane Aptitude Checks while in combat.
Combat Facing
Warrior
You fight in such a way as to minimize being surrounded. A maximum of two
opponents may engage you at once in melee. Note: Characters with this Ability
may be engaged by any number of Ranged or Hurled attacks.
Combat Prowess
Warrior
You are quick to recover from your fear. Regardless of your Reaction to a given
Encounter, you only suffer a maximum of one (1) Round of Disadvantage.
Common Weapons Training
General
You’ve managed to get some hands-on time with the most basic of weapons. You
are now considered trained in all Common weapons. Note: All Acolytes, Rogues,
and Warriors already possess this level of Training.
Communal Casting
Mage
You may Cooperate (as per Cooperation for Talent Checks) with another Arcane
Caster on any Spell they are attempting to Cast, provided you have at least one
179

ATHIA –
point of Aptitude in the Art or Arts contained in their Spell. You are limited to the
maximum Spell difficulty of the lower Caster Level between you and whomever
you are assisting and use their Spell Difficulty for your Aptitude Check. If the Spell
requires more than one Mana to maintain, you may split the Mana cost with them,
with an odd amount of Mana going to whomever you’re assisting. The maximum
Spell difficulty for whomever you are assisting is raised by one (+1) for each
character with Communal Casting assisting the initial Caster.
Companion I
General
You have earned the trust of a traveling companion. This companion might be a
noble mount, a befriended animal, or another member of your race. Your
companion is assumed to be loyal friend and looks out for you in every way
possible. This companion is equal to a Challenge Level 1 creature (which you may
design yourself). Should your companion be slain or released it would take you
another 1d6 weeks to find another worthy companion. Note: Should your chosen
companion be an animal, you automatically succeed in all Easy Taming Checks
with your companion. Additionally, the Health of the Companion should be
broken down into Health Tiers with the following formula: ½ Health becoming
their Fatigue Tier, ¼ Health becoming their Battered Tier, and ¼ Health becoming
their Injured Tier.
Companion II
General, Companion I
As Companion I, but your companion is now equal to a creature with a Challenge
Level of half your Level (round up). Note: Should your chosen companion be an
animal, you automatically succeed in all Average Taming Checks with your
companion.
Companion III
General, Companion II
As Companion II, but your companion is now equal to a creature with a Challenge
Level equal to your Level. Note: Should your chosen companion be an animal, you
automatically succeed in all Difficult Taming Checks with them.
Composed
General
You are always calm, cool, and collected. When you are Surprised attackers do
not gain Advantage on their Checks against you, and you can take an Action or a
Maneuver in a Surprise Round.
Conditioned
Warrior
You recover in battle faster than most. On a successful Recuperation Check you
gain an additional number of Stamina equal to your Level (not to exceed your
180

Abilities
maximum Stamina). On a failed Recuperation Check you regain ½ your Level
(rounded down).
Connections
General
You’ve made a great number of friends and acquaintances, and always seem to
know just who to ask to get what you need. Finding someone that can sell stolen
goods or arrange travel, finding a place to stay, or finding unique equipment
always seems well within your capability.
Continuance I
Mage
Your ability to keep your magic going comes easier to you. Reduce the cost of
your Spell’s Duration by two (-2).
Continuance II
Mage, Continuance I
As Continuance I, but in addition you may freely adjust the Duration of your Spells
in your grimoire from Instant to Concentration, or vice versa, without it becoming
a Spontaneous Spell. Spell Durations switched require a corresponding
adjustment to the difficulty of the Spell.
Controlled Fall I
Rogue
You take half Damage from any fall so long as you are within reach of a wall, tree,
or some other means of slowing yourself.
Controlled Fall II
Rogue, Controlled Fall I
As Controlled Fall I, but you take no Damage from the fall.
Conviction
Acolyte
Your faith against fear is an inspiration to others. You may use a Bless as a Free
Action to allow anyone in your Holy Aura to use your Daring as their own for the
duration of the Encounter.
Counter Strike I
Warrior
You capitalize on your opponent’s mistakes. When an opponent misses you on a
Hit Check, they take one (1) point of Damage as you make them pay for their error.
Counter Strike II
Warrior, Counter Strike I
As Counter Strike I, but now your opponent takes Damage equal to your Level.

181

ATHIA –
Covert Magic
Mage
Your Arcane powers have never been overt. Your magic requires no words, no
actions, and even your Effects are unseen (if you so choose). Note: Although the
Effects of your magic may be unseen, the results of the Effect are apparent to
everyone.
Create Relic
Acolyte
You are one of the few individuals capable of creating powerful magical items.
You can create a Sacred Relic as described in the Magic Items section.
Cross-Trained
General
Selecting this Ability allows you to immediately select an Ability from any other
Class’s list of Abilities. For example, selecting the Cross-Trained Ability and
choosing the Warrior’s Born In Armor Ability would give you the Ability: CrossTrained: Born in Armor as a single Ability choice.
Crowning Blow
Warrior
The weak and weary are no match for you in battle. Any Target you have struck
whose remaining Health is equal to or less than your Level is immediately slain by
a powerful display of your physical prowess.
Crusader
Acolyte
You are the fist of your god, able to turn divine will into victory on the
battlefield. Once per Encounter you may spend Favor, up to your Level, to gain
temporary Stamina. For every point of Favor spent you gain 3 points of Stamina.
Any unspent, temporary Stamina is lost at the end of the Encounter. Use of this
Ability is considered a Free Action.
Curse
Acolyte
Some gods strive only to help others; yours has a more practical outlook on life.
Your Blessings may be used to Disadvantage a Target. The Target of your Curse
will make their next Check at Disadvantage.
Dangerous
Rogue
When you are good, you are dangerous. Any time you score a Critical on a Hit
Check you automatically do the maximum amount of Damage you possibly can.

182

Abilities
Death Devotee
Acolyte, Access to the Divine Influence of Death
As a devoted adherent to the Divine Influence of Death you have found yourself
granted with extraordinary powers. The following powers are granted to a Death
Devotee:
•

Once per day a Death Devotee may automatically succeed on any one
Strength-related Check.
• Once per day a Death Devotee may double (x2) the range of their Holy
Aura for a Death Influence-related Divine Intervention.
• Once per day a Death Devotee may enact (as a Free Action) a Divine
Intervention from the Influence of Death with a cost of 1 Favor for free.
Note: Only one “...Devotee” Ability may be taken at a time.
Deathblow
Warrior
Your strikes are incredibly skilled and calculated, and when best delivered can
bring instant death to your enemies. When you roll a Critical success on a Hit
Check your enemy must succeed in an Easy (9) Endurance Check or be instantly
killed. This Ability is only enacted when the Warrior themselves has rolled the
Critical, no other ability or Effect can bestow the Critical upon them.
Defensive Mobility
Warrior
Armor only slows you down. When Unarmored you add both your Dexterity and
Constitution Modifier to your Defense.
Deflect Incoming
Warrior
Arrows have rained down upon you before. You can use your weapon or shield
to cause any one successful incoming Ranged or Hurled attack to miss once per
Round.
Determined
Mage
You are firmly resolved to succeed at a given spell, and do not let your first failure
dissuade you from trying the same spell again. When casting a Spell, if you miss
your Aptitude Check by one or two, you may attempt to cast that same Spell again
without needing to change your circumstances (refer to the Failure and
Additional Attempts section of the Core Mechanics). For example, if you need to
roll a 12 or better on your Aptitude Check and roll a 10 or 11, you may try again
without changing your circumstances using this Ability.

183

ATHIA –
Devastating Critical I
Warrior
Your greatest of blows are especially deadly. Your Critical Hits do additional
Damage equal to your current Stamina. Note: Current Stamina is the number of
Stamina the character possesses when the Critical Hit is rolled.
Devastating Critical II
Warrior, Devastating Critical I
Your greatest of blows are absolutely debilitating. As Devastating Critical I, but
rather than your Critical Hits doing additional Damage equal to your current
Stamina you now do Damage equal to twice (x2) your current Stamina. Note:
Current Stamina is the number of Stamina the character possesses when the
Critical Hit is rolled.
Disciple of Erebos
Acolyte, Follower of Erebos
Erebos offers you even more for being worthy of his Blessings. Your Blessings
may also be used to double the result of your recipient's next Damage roll.
Disciple of Ilios
Acolyte, Follower of Ilios
Ilios offers you even more for being worthy of his Blessings. Your Blessings may
also be used to make Opponents roll their next Hit Checks against the recipient
at Disadvantage for the Round.
Disciple of Selene
Acolyte, Follower of Selene
Selene offers you even more for being worthy of her Blessings. Your Blessings
may also be used to grant Damage Reduction to the recipient equal to twice your
Level for the Round.
Disciple of the Triad
Acolyte, Follower of the Triad
The Triad offers you even more for being worthy of their Blessings. Your Blessings
may be used to grant a Defense bonus to the recipient equal to your Level. This
bonus lasts until the next successful Hit Check is made against the recipient.
Disease Resistant
General
You have a highly developed immune system. You are immune to all forms of
disease.
Distill Resonance
Mage
You are capable of drawing raw power out of the Resonance Crystals you find.
You may syphon the Power Points out of a Resonance Crystal as a Free Action to
184

Abilities
lower the Difficulty of an Aptitude Check by a value equal to your Level. Thus, a
3rd Level Mage could syphon 3 Power Points (their maximum, by Level) from a
Minute Resonance Crystal to lower the Difficulty of their Aptitude Check by 3
(thus leaving 13 Power Points remaining in the Resonance Crystal).
Divination Devotee
Acolyte, Access to the Divine Influence of Divination
As a devoted adherent to the Divine Influence of Divination you have found
yourself granted with extraordinary powers. The following powers are granted
to a Divination Devotee:
•

Once per day a Divination Devotee may automatically succeed on any
one Knowledge-related Check.
• Once per day a Divination Devotee may double (x2) the range of their
Holy Aura for a Divination Influence-related Divine Intervention.
• Once per day a Divination Devotee may enact (as a Free Action) a
Divine Intervention from the Influence of Divination with a cost of 1
Favor for free.
Note: Only one “...Devotee” Ability may be taken at a time.
Divine Grace
Acolyte
You are a protected servant of the gods when in their good graces. When
maintaining at least half of your Favor, you are immune to arcane, mind affecting
Effects (Chaos, Charm, Shape Memory, Suggestion, etc.). The GM has final say on
what Effects do or do not affect you.
Divine Luck
Rogue
Not only do you possess the Gods’ favor, but they are proactively looking out for
you. You may spend one (1) Favor to reroll any one die. You must accept the result
of the second roll.
Divine Protection I
Acolyte
Your god protects all those who side with you in battle. As an Action, you can give
a number of your allies, equal to your level, a +1 Defense for the duration of the
encounter. This ability may be used one time per day.
Divine Protection II
Acolyte, Divine Protection I
As Divine Protection I, but rather than bestowing a +1 Defense to your allies you
now bestow a Defense bonus of +2. This ability may be used one time per day.

185

ATHIA –
Dodge I
Rogue
One on one you are difficult to hit. You gain a Defense bonus of one (+1) against
any single Target. This Target needs to be selected at the beginning of each turn.
Dodge II
Rogue, Dodge I
As Dodge I, but your Defense bonus now increases to (+2).
Dynamism
Mage
For some Mages, when all goes well, it goes very well. Dynamic Mages gain added
benefits from their critically successful castings. When selecting this Ability,
choose one of the Dynamic Types from the Dynamism Table. The type chosen
should be noted with the Ability. For example, Dynamism: Incendiary. When a
Critical result is rolled on an Aptitude Check, the Mage with this Ability may
choose to ignore the bonus given by Dynamism.
Dynamism Table
Dynamism Type
Far-Reaching
Incendiary
Longstanding
Vitalized

Added Bonus on Critical
Affect one additional Focus per level of the Mage
Add 1d4 Damage to the result per Level of the Mage
Duration (Rounds) extended by the Level of the Mage
Automatically successful on their next Check

Ear Of The Gods
Acolyte
The simplest of requests are instantly granted by your god. With this Ability you
can enact one Divine Intervention as a Free Action, once per Encounter.
Eidetic Memory
General
You have always possessed a powerful memory. You can recall everything you
have personally experienced in life. Books you’ve read, conversations you’ve had,
or even things you’ve seen can all be summoned forth from your memory.
Eldritch Arcana
Mage
You can tap into the most puissant powers by opening conduits into the Arcane
forces of Athia. In selecting this Ability, you may choose to tie one or more Mana
points, at will, into the mightiest of Arcane forces. This Mana is invested and
cannot be used for any other purpose (for example, casting Spells) unless the
Mage takes an Action to reclaim their invested Mana. Choose one of the following
capabilities:
186

Abilities
•

Adamant: By dedicating a point (1) of Mana the Mage gains a point of
Damage Resistance against all physical attacks equal to one-half their
Level (round up). By dedicating four (4) points of Mana the Mage
increases that Damage Resistance against all physical attacks (i.e., nonArcane and non-Divine attacks) equal to their Level.
• Adroit: By dedicating two points (2) of Mana the Mage may lower the
Difficulty of any Spell they attempt to cast by one (-1 Spell Difficulty). By
dedicating five points (5) the mage may lower the Difficulty of any Spell
they attempt to cast by two (-2 Spell Difficulty).
• Ensconced: By dedicating a point (1) of Mana the Mage gains a point of
Damage Resistance against all Arcane attacks equal to one-half their
Level (round up). By dedicating three (3) points of Mana the Mage
increases that Damage Resistance against all Arcane attacks equal to
their Level.
• Magnitude: By dedicating three points (3) of Mana the Mage gains +1 to
any Attribute they select. By dedicating four points (4) the mage gains
+1 to any Attribute they select and may take that Attribute beyond their
maximum. It takes an Action for the Mage to apply this bonus to a
different Attribute.
• Portend: By dedicating a point (1) of Mana the Mage no longer suffers
Disadvantage on any Talent Checks. By dedicating three points (3) of
Mana, the Mage is considered to have an Apprentice level of Expertise
in each Talent.
• Retaliative: By dedicating two points (2) of Mana the Mage may add an
additional 1d4 Damage to any Spell they cast. By dedicating five points
(5) of Mana the Mage may increase their Damage die used in any spell
by one (D6’s become D8’s, D8’s become D10’s, etc.).
Note: In selecting this Ability, the specific capability of the Eldritch Arcana should
be noted with the Ability. For example, Eldritch Arcana: Intrepid, or Intrepid
Eldritch Arcana. Despite the number of capabilities of this Ability, Eldritch Arcana
may only be taken as an Ability once. Additionally, the effects of the Eldritch
Arcana do not stack. For Example, a Mage who spends 4 Mana on their
Magnitude Eldritch Arcana power gains a +1 to their Attribute (even beyond its
maximum), not a +2.
Embolden I
Rogue
Your words in battle are inspiring. As a Free Action you can inspire a Hit bonus to
an ally equal to your Level on their next Hit Check, once per Encounter.
Embolden II
Rogue, Embolden I
As Embolden I, but you can now grant your Hit bonus to all allies within earshot.
187

ATHIA –
Enchanter
Mage
You have a knack for empowering mundane items with your Arcane magic. You
can create Enchanted Items as described in the Magic Items section.
Enemy Observance
Rogue
You can discern weakness in your enemies. Their actions and techniques give you
precious insight into their capabilities and injuries. As an Action you can know the
amount of Health your enemies have remaining and any Special Abilities they
possess. Finally, in the case of an enemy with Aspects, you are also aware of each
of their Aspects.
Enliven
Enliven Table
Acolyte
Stamina Regained
Level
Your faith is invigorating. You can
per Round
cause those within your Holy Aura
1-2
1
to regain Stamina during an
3-4
2
Encounter. This Ability is activated
5-6
3
with a single Action, then continues
7+
4
throughout the remainder of the
Encounter.
Recipients
regain
Stamina at a rate based upon your level (see the Enliven Table).
Evade Arcane
Rogue
Your metaphysical connection to the Arcane world is intermittent. Once per
Encounter you can cancel, dodge, or otherwise nullify a single Arcane Spell from
affecting you.
Exalt
Acolyte
You can ask the Divine for just a bit more when it comes to Blessing those around
you. By expending two (2) Blessings, you may grant an individual an automatic
Success on their next Check.
Exact Magic I
Mage
Your ability to strike your foes with your magic comes easier to you. Reduce the
cost of your Spell’s Each Additional Focuses by one (-1), thus reducing Each
Additional Focus’ Difficulty Increase from +3 to +2.
Exact Magic II
Mage, Exact Magic I
As Exact Magic I, but you may now freely adjust the Focus of the Spells in your
Grimoire (less or more Focuses, or less or more Focus Radius) without it
188

Abilities
becoming a Spontaneous Spell. Spell Focuses altered require a corresponding
adjustment to the difficulty of the Spell.
Extension I
Mage
Your ability to reach out with your magic is easier. Reduce the cost of your Spell’s
Range by two (-2).
Extension II
Mage, Extension II
As Extension I, but in addition you may freely adjust the Range of your Spells in
your Grimoire (further or closer) without it becoming a Spontaneous Spell. Spell
Ranges altered require a corresponding adjustment to the difficulty of the Spell.
Faith Abounding
Acolyte
When brimming with their god’s favor, some Acolytes become empowered. An
Acolyte with this Ability gains one of the following powers as associated with
their faith, so long as their Favor is at or within one-half their Level (round up) of
maximum. For example, a 5th level Acolyte with a maximum Favor of 16, must
posess 13 or more Favor to gain one of the benefits below:
Faith Abounding Table
Faith
Erebos
Illios
Selene
Triad

Power
Gain Advantage on all Talent Checks
No Disadvantage as a result of Reactions in combat
Gain Damage Reduction equal to their Level
Are Immune to all States

Fast Cast
Mage
Once per Encounter you can cast a Spell in place of your Maneuver at a +2
Difficulty.
Fated
General
Characters with this Ability roll three d20’s. These dice are set aside and kept
through a session. Each die may be used in place of rolling a Check, and each die
must be used through the course of the session. If a die is unused by the end of
the session, this Ability may not be used in the next game session (though it may
again in the session following).

189

ATHIA –
Favorite Weapon I
Warrior
Like all warriors you have a favorite weapon. Choose one weapon. You gain a Hit
bonus of one (+1) when using that type of weapon.
Favorite Weapon II
Warrior, Favorite Weapon I
As Favored Weapon I, but you now receive a Hit bonus of two (+2) when using
that type of weapon.
Favorite Weapon III
Warrior, Favorite Weapon II
As Favored Weapon II, but you now receive a Hit bonus of three (+3) when using
that type of weapon.
Fend Off
Warrior
You have a knack for staving off your attackers. You gain a one-point (+1) bonus
to your Defense against all enemies when using a weapon with the Lengthy
designation.
Fleet
Rogue
You are exceptionally fast. Increase your Base Move by +10’ per turn.
Focused Fighting
Rogue
The longer you square off with your opponent the more you become aware of
how to counter their fighting style. If all your Attacks are made against the same
Target, each subsequent Round you find it easier to connect with
them. Beginning with the second Round their Defense lowers by one (-1). Each
following Round that you remain solely focused on this Target their Defense
continues to lower by one. For example, if focused on the same Target for a
fourth Round, their Defense would be lowered by three (-3). The Target’s Defense
is only lowered for you.
Force Strike I
Rogue
You can focus and release your inner energy as a ranged attack on your enemies.
Force Strike does Damage equal to your Base Strength Damage and has a Range
of 10’ per level. Your Force Strike is considered a weapon for the purposes of
applying other Abilities.

190

Abilities
Force Strike II
Rogue, Force Strike I
As Force Strike I, but you now do Damage equal to your Base Strength plus your
Level.
Fortuitous I
Rogue
You are incredibly lucky. You may reroll any natural one (1) you roll on any die.
Fortuitous II
Rogue, Fortuitous I
Sometimes it is better to be lucky than good. Your natural 1’s on any Check are
also considered Critical Successes.
Fortunate
General
You live a very charmed life. Rather than roll, one time per Session, you may
automatically succeed at any one single Check.
Full Defense
General
You are adept at forgoing any aggressive action to ensure your opponents have
an exceedingly difficult time hitting you in combat. As an Action, you may
increase your Defense by four (+4). This Action happens in the Round you declare
it and does not wait to go into effect following the End of Round Report.
Gallant
General
You have always been able to captivate, motivate, or impress others. You gain a
bonus of +1 to your Valor Attribute. This bonus cannot raise your Attribute beyond
its maximum.
Gather Energy
Mage
By spending time collecting the Arcane powers for your magic you can cast Spells
more effectively. For every 15 minutes your Character gathers their power, your
Spell Difficulty decreases by one (-1), to a maximum decrease of four (-4).
Glorious Finish
Acolyte
Unbeknownst to your enemies, the ire of your God becomes evident in your most
desperate hour. When Downed, all allies within your Holy Aura receive an
immediate Bless (this is a free Bless and does not come from the number of Bless
the Acolyte has available to them), and have all negative States removed (as
decided by the GM).
191

ATHIA –
Glyphs
Mage
You can set magical traps to kill your enemies. By tracing arcane symbols onto a
floor, wall, door, or object you can empower it to go off the moment the Glyph is
disturbed. The Mage spends one Round per Mana they wish to invest into their
Glyph. Mana can be invested into a Glyph in the following ways:
•

Focus: The Glyph will only affect the first sentient being that triggers it.
By empowering it with additional Mana the Focus can be doubled (as per
the Focus Spell Element).

•

Damage: Each point of Mana invested does 1D8 per Caster Level.

The Glyph remains until either triggered by someone, or the Mage takes an Action
to retrieve their invested Mana, thus destroying the Glyph. Note: The Glyph is
virtually invisible, only noticeable with a successful Notice Check at Extreme (18)
Difficulty. As an Example, a 2nd Level Mage looking to invest 3 Mana can create a
Glyph that will do 4D8 Damage with a doubled Focus radius.
Graced
General
You possess your god’s divine sanction. Gain two (+2) additional Favor.
Grandmaster
General, a Talent at Mastery Expertise
You have studied, practiced, and honed your talents to legendary levels. This
Ability is applied to a Talent you have at Master Expertise. You now have the
Grandmaster level of Expertise for that Talent, granting you a bonus of +9 for any
Checks with that Talent.
Greater God
Acolyte
Your god sees great things in you. As such they have granted you access to one
additional Influence for use in enacting Divine Interventions.
Guardsmanship I
Warrior
You are adept at protecting those around you. You must fight alongside a chosen
ally to use this ability. Choose one ally fighting next to you and one enemy Target
per Encounter. All Hit Checks and Damage rolls against your ally from the Target
are made at Disadvantage.
Guardsmanship II
Warrior, Guardsmanship I
As Guardsmanship I, but all Hit Checks and Damage rolls against your designated
ally are at Disadvantage from all enemies.
192

Abilities
Hamstring
Rogue
Once per Encounter you can make an attack focused on impeding, slowing, or
otherwise forcing your opponent to become less effective in their defense. Your
Target’s Defense is reduced by half your level following your successful attack
(round up). This penalty lasts until the target is healed but does not stack with
each successful attack.
Hard Target I
Rogue
You’ve always been a difficult opponent. As a Free Action you can choose to avoid
any one Attack made against you in a Round. This Ability may be used once per
Encounter.
Hard Target II
Rogue, Hard Target I
As a Maneuver, you can make the second Attack made against you in a Round
miss. Note: Although you may make a second attack against you in a Round miss,
third, fourth, or other additional Attacks made against you will still hit.
Hardened
General
You pride yourself on your conditioning and hardiness. Your body has always seen
you through the worst the world has to offer. You gain a bonus of +1 to your
Constitution Attribute. This bonus cannot raise your Attribute beyond its
maximum.
Harm
Mage
You’ve a knack for adding a bit of damage to your magic. You can choose to add
or remove Damage when casting a Spell from your Grimoire without it being a
Spontaneous Spell. Damage added or removed requires a corresponding
adjustment to the difficulty of the Spell.
Harrier I
Rogue
You are an expert of taking advantage of a surprise attack. You gain Double
Advantage for the Surprise round, rather than just Advantage on any Check you
make. Additionally, you gain Advantage on your second Round of Checks against
your surprised Enemy.
Harrier II
Rogue, Harrier I
As Harrier I, but rather than gaining Advantage on your second Round of Checks
you now gain Advantage on your Checks against your surprised enemy for the
remainder of the Encounter.
193

ATHIA –
Hasty Recharge
Mage, Runecrafter
Somehow, you have perfected the art of recharging your Runework as quickly as
possible. You now recharge your Runework at a rate of twenty minutes per Effect
recharged.
Heavy Armor Training
General, Medium Armor Training
You have had training in the greatest of armors. You are considered trained in
Heavy Armor. Note: All Warriors already possess this level of training.
Heirloom
General
Something has been gifted to you that has been passed down for generations.
You may choose any single (1) piece of equipment, Runework, or Minor/Minute
Magic Item without cost for your Character. Your GM has final say as to what is
an acceptable item for this Ability.
Here and Gone
Warrior
Your greatest asset while mounted is your speed. You may Move both before and
after a mounted attack, rather than one or the other.
High Tolerance
General
You can drink anyone under the table. With this Ability your character never
suffers any adverse effects from consuming alcohol or other narcotics. You do
not suffer Disadvantage on Hit Checks, do not have your Speed reduced by half,
and do not suffer Disadvantage on Physical Talent Checks due to the Inebriated
State. However, you do retain any positive effects of the Inebriated State
(immune to Fear, enemies at Disadvantage for Damage).
Hold The Line I
Warrior
You are harder to deal with when you’ve planted yourself. As a maneuver you
may increase your Defense by one (+1) so long as you do not move. Should you
move your Defense returns to its normal Score.
Hold The Line II
Warrior, Hold The Line I
As Hold the Line I, but rather than your Defense increasing by one (+1) your
Defense now increases by three (+3) until you move.

194

Abilities
Holy Emanation I
Acolyte
Your god makes you fearsome in battle. The first Hit Check attempted by an
enemy against you in an Encounter is done so at Disadvantage.
Holy Emanation II
Acolyte, Holy Emanation I
Fear of lashing out against a representative of the Divine cowers your opponent's
blows. In addition to your enemies having Disadvantage on their first attempts at
a Hit Check against you, all their Damage rolls against you are done so at
Disadvantage.
Hospitaller
Acolyte
Your powers are always at their best when aiding others. You roll any healing die
at Advantage.
Improved Critical I
Warrior
Your skill at precision is legendary. You score a Critical Hit on a 19 and 20.
Improved Critical II
Warrior, Improved Critical I
As Improved Critical I, but you score a Critical Hit on an 18, 19 or 20.
Improved Holy Aura
Acolyte
Your god has made your powers far reaching. The radius of your Holy Aura is
increased by 50%. Therefore, a Fifth Level Acolyte would have a Holy Aura of 75’
instead of 50’.
Indulgence
Acolyte
Your greatest moments make the heavens proud, earning you great boons in
times of need. When you score a Critical Success add a point to this Ability. Spend
this point to automatically succeed (though not a Critical success) on any one
Check. Only one point may be banked with this Ability at a time. This Ability may
be taken multiple times to increase the number of successes one may bank by
one.
Inspiration
Acolyte
No one is better at encouraging those around them to fight on than you. By
spending an Action, you can remove any negative Combat Reactions due to Fear
from those within your Holy Aura for the Round.
195

ATHIA –
Inspire Success
Rogue
Encouraging words are your specialty. As a Free Action you can inspire a nearby
ally to grant them Advantage on their next Talent Check, once per Day.
Intuitive Aim
General
Rather than relying on raw motor skills to put arrows or bolts on target, you
instead rely on instinct to place your shots. Choose any one Ranged weapon. You
may substitute your Instincts Modifier for your Dexterity Modifier when making
a Hit Check with that weapon.
Jack of All Trades
Rogue
It is true, you do know a little about everything. You can make any Untrained
Talent Check without suffering Disadvantage.
King’s Code
Warrior
You strive to hold yourself to the ideals of your land's Great King. Each of the
progenitors of the Great Houses had defining characteristics that have since
become a code of Four Great Pillars. Those codes for each of the Great King’s are
listed below. Any Warrior that takes the King’s Code endeavors to hold to their
Great King’s Four Great Pillars. In doing so, they gain two distinct benefits. First,
they gain the benefit of Advantage on all Checks during social interactions with
members of their Code’s corresponding House. Additionally, once per Encounter,
as a Free Action, the Warrior can negate or otherwise ignore the effects of an
Enemy’s Special Ability for that Round. The following is a list of the King’s Code
for each of the Great Kings:
King’s Code Table
House (King)

196

Code

Asos

• Knowledge is power
• Be vigilant
• Help those seeking to help themselves
• Pass on what you have learned

Cerrak

• Your word is your worth
• Never tolerate failures and cheats
• Reveal your assets last
• Respect those above you

Blayth

• Serve the True Gods
• Maintain integrity
• Exercise compassion

Abilities
House (King)

Code
• Always preserve your loyalties

Draur

• Reason over emotion
• Always have a plan
• Protect those you serve
• Pleasure only when void of responsibility

Lloar

• Victory above all
• Be underestimated
• Own your responsibility
• Never give in to apathy

Thercer

• Serve
• Aid those in need
• Do your duty
• Speak the truth

Onin

• Foremost is family
• Don’t let words get in the way of action
• Survive to fight on
• Strength in war, wisdom in peace

Knockout Artist
Rogue
You have become rather skilled at landing blows in just the right places to take
your opponents down. You consider yourself two Levels higher than you are
when expending Stamina to attempt to bestow the Unconscious State to an
opponent. For Example, a Level 4 Rogue attempting to spend Stamina to bestow
the Unconscious State to a Fomor (Challenge Level 5) would pay 10 Stamina
instead of 11, as they would consider themselves Level 6 with the Knockout Artist
Ability.
Learn From Mistakes
Rogue
Sometimes failures can provide a great deal of insight. Once per Day you may
make a second attempt immediately following any Failed Check without needing
to await changes to the situation, environment, or the passing of adequate time.
In addition, you gain a bonus of +2 on your second attempt.
Life Devotee
Acolyte, Access to the Divine Influence of Life
As a devoted adherent to the Divine Influence of Life you have found yourself
granted with extraordinary powers. The following powers are granted to a Life
Devotee:

197

ATHIA –
•

Once per day a Life Devotee may automatically succeed on any one
Constitution-related Check.
• Once per day a Life Devotee may double (x2) the range of their Holy
Aura for a Life Influence-related Divine Intervention.
• Once per day a Life Devotee may enact (as a Free Action) a Divine
Intervention from the Influence of Life with a cost of 1 Favor for free.
Note: Only one “...Devotee” Ability may be taken at a time.
Light Armor Training
General
You have trained in the simplest of armors. You are considered trained in Light
Armor. Note: All Acolytes, Rogues, and Warriors already possess this level of
training.
Light-Foot
General
You have a very light step. By chance or skill, you do not set off traps simply by
stepping or passing over them.
Maniacal
Warrior
You are fueled by the taste of battle; the worse things get the greater your
capability. The first time you take Damage in an Encounter you immediately gain
two bonus Stamina (+2). When you first enter your Battered Tier, you gain five
bonus Stamina (+5). When you first enter the Injured Tier, you gain ten bonus
Stamina (+10). If unspent, this bonus Stamina is lost at the end of the Encounter.
Additionally, if healed in battle you cannot regain these bonuses as they are only
applied the first time you enter a Health Tier.
Marksman
Warrior
You always hit your target. Each round you spend aiming, you gain a bonus of one
(+1) to your next Hit Check (up to a three turn/+3 maximum).
Martial Weapons Training
General, Common Weapons Training
You are trained in the weapons of war. You are now considered trained in all
Martial weapons. Note: All Warriors already possess this level of training.
Martyr I
Acolyte
Sometimes you must sacrifice yourself for others. When an ally fighting alongside
you is wounded, you may choose to take the Damage from that attack yourself.
Martyr may be used once per encounter.

198

Abilities
Martyr II
Acolyte, Martyr I
As Martyr I, but any time an ally fighting alongside you is wounded, you may
choose to take the Damage from that attack yourself. You are no longer limited
in the number of times you may use this Ability in an encounter.
Master of Air
Mage
You are adept at the Arcane Art of Air. Any Spell you design that is composed
exclusively with Air Effects has its Difficulty to cast reduced by one (-1).
Master of Cosmos
Mage
You are adept at the Arcane Art of Cosmos. Any Spell you design that is composed
exclusively with Cosmos Effects has its Difficulty to cast reduced by one (-1).
Master of Earth
Mage
You are adept at the Arcane Art of Earth. Any Spell you design that is composed
exclusively with Earth Effects has its Difficulty to cast reduced by one (-1).
Master of Fire
Mage
You are adept at the Arcane Art of Fire. Any Spell you design that is composed
exclusively with Fire Effects has its Difficulty to cast reduced by one (-1).
Master of Water
Mage
You are adept at the Arcane Art of Water. Any Spell you design that is composed
exclusively with Water Effects has its Difficulty to cast reduced by one (-1).
Medium Armor Training
General, Light Armor Training
You have had training in some of the more capable armors. You are considered
trained in Medium Armor. Note: All Acolytes and Warriors already possess this
level of training.
Memorized Spell
Mage
You have one Spell per positive Knowledge Modifier etched in your Memory. For
example, a Mage with a Knowledge Modifier of +2 would have 2 Spells
memorized. Mages with a zero or negative Knowledge Modifier gain no benefit
from this Ability. You do not need your Grimoire to cast these memorized spells,
and do not consider them as being Spontaneous Spells.

199

ATHIA –
Merciless
General
When you catch your enemies off guard it is to devastating effect. When you
score a Critical Hit, you do an additional 1D20 Damage.
Mercurial
General
You have a light touch, a light foot, and fine motor skills. You have always been
able to keep your legs under you and your hands steady. You gain a bonus of +1
to your Dexterity Attribute. This bonus cannot raise your Attribute beyond its
maximum.
Mighty
General
You are powerful, capable, and have pulled through the toughest of
circumstances on raw strength alone. Your might has always made right. You gain
a bonus of +1 to your Strength Attribute. This bonus cannot raise your Attribute
beyond its maximum.
Miracle
Acolyte
You can enact a divine miracle. This may be anything conceivable devised by you
with the consent of the GM, such as turning an entire land fertile or returning a
character to life. This Ability once used is lost, but when called upon the god(s)
will attempt to do all the character asks of them. Note: This Ability may be taken
multiple times.
Mounted Archer
Warrior
Firing from the back of a moving beast is something you have trained extensively
at. You suffer no penalties for making ranged attacks from the back of a mount.
Mounted Assault
Warrior
You have the knack of using your mount’s momentum to deliver the most
devastating of blows. You do double (x2) Damage from your mount.
Mounted Combatant
Warrior
You can always position your mount out of harm’s way. With a successful Difficult
(15) Taming Talent Check you can negate any successful attack against your
mount. This Check is made as a Free Action.

200

Abilities
Multitasker
Mage
You have a flair for maintaining numerous magical spells at once. You have one
additional point (+1) of Mana. Note: This Ability may be taken multiple times.
My Weapon
Rogue
When wielding a chosen weapon your character possesses, Stamina costs are
reduced by one (-1), to a minimum of 1. Thus, if a Rogue needed a result of 18 to
hit a creature and has a score of 15, the Rogue would only need to expend 2
Stamina to succeed in hitting their target (when it would have otherwise cost the
Rogue 3 Stamina to increase their Hit check by 3 points). Should your character
lose their weapon of choice, they will need two weeks with a replacement to
regain the use of this ability for their new weapon.
Mystic Leverage I
Mage
Tapping into Arcane energy grants measurable power, but at a cost. Mystic
Leverage allows the mage to invest a portion of their Mana to gain advantage on
a given task. By temporarily investing a point of the Mage’s available Mana they
may gain Advantage on any single roll. This Mana will remain invested until the
Mage rolls a Critical Success on any Check. Any number of Mana may be invested
in this manner however a Critical Success on any Check only returns a single point
at a time.
Mystic Leverage II
Mage, Mystic Leverage I
As Mystic Leverage I, but you may now also regain your invested Mana at a rate
of 1 point per Worthwhile Rest.
Mystical I
General, Non-Mage, Non-Rogue
You possess the ability to cast Arcane Spells. You gain one (1) Mana, and one (1)
point of Arcane Aptitude. You may pick any Arcane Effect from any Arcane Art.
You are limited in casting only that one Arcane Art Effect. The first time this Ability
is selected you gain a bonus to your Mana equal to your Strength Modifier. Lastly,
your Caster Level is considered 1 level less than your character level (to a
minimum of 1).
Mystical II
General, Mystical I
As Mystical I, but you now gain two (+2) additional Arcane Effects from the same
Arcane Art as Mystical I (for a total of 3). You also gain an additional one (+1)
Arcane Aptitude.

201

ATHIA –
Mystical III
General, Mystical II
As Mystical II, but you now have access to all the Effects from your chosen Arcane
Art. You also gain an additional one (+1) Arcane Aptitude, and one (+1) additional
Mana.
Nature Devotee
Acolyte, Access to the Divine Influence of Nature
As a devoted adherent to the Divine Influence of Nature you have found yourself
granted with extraordinary powers. The following powers are granted to a
Nature Devotee:
•

Once per day a Nature Devotee may automatically succeed on any one
Instincts-related Check.
• Once per day a Nature Devotee may double (x2) the range of their Holy
Aura for a Nature Influence-related Divine Intervention.
• Once per day a Nature Devotee may enact (as a Free Action) a Divine
Intervention from the Influence of Nature with a cost of 1 Favor for
free.
Note: Only one “...Devotee” Ability may be taken at a time.
Nature’s Blessing
General
The animals of Athia see you as one of their own. All creatures of the Beast Family
consider you non-threatening but if otherwise provoked will still defend
themselves, their families, and their territories.
Oathbinder
Acolyte
You can bind people to sworn oaths. Oaths are agreed upon terms between two
or more people and may include the Acolyte themselves. Once the terms have
been agreed upon, a punishment must also be agreed upon. The Acolyte can then
bind the oath, obligating everyone to their word. Should any party fail in
delivering upon the oath’s terms, they then suffer the penalties agreed upon,
delivered by the hands of the gods themselves. Note: Oath punishments will be
settled by the GM and should be as close to the agreed upon punishments as
possible.
Obscure Knowledge
Rogue
You have an uncanny knack for pulling information out of the blue. You can make
a Knowledge Check (Difficulty to be determined by the GM) to recall a
worthwhile, and perhaps surprising piece of information that pertains to your
character’s current situation.

202

Abilities
Opportunist
Warrior
You are skilled at turning anything into a weapon. Your Improvised Weapons do
full Damage rather than reduced Damage, and any Ability that applies to an
unspecified weapon applies to your Improvised Weapon.
Pelter
Warrior
Your throws are incredible, and always on target. Weapons with the Hurled
Designation have a base range of 100’ in your hands. Additionally, you gain
Advantage on Hit Checks when throwing any Hurled weapon at Targets within
20’.
Performer
Rogue
If you have an opportunity to play or act before others, you gain Advantage on
any Charisma, Discipline, or Faith Checks for the duration of the scene/encounter.
Additionally, while performing, you have drawn the attention of those around
you such that anyone else in the scene/encounter gains Advantage on any Stealth
or Thievery Checks.
Personal Immunity
Mage
You have always been able to resist your own magic. At any time, you can choose
to be immune to your own Arcane Spells.
Pious
Acolyte
Your heartfelt appeal to the Gods is exceedingly compelling. You gain one (+1)
additional Favor with each successful Prayer.
Poison Master
Rogue
Your use of toxins is unmatched. Your poisons do twice (x2) as much Damage per
round to your Targets.
Poison Immunity
General
Your system can break down venoms and toxins at an alarming rate. You
automatically succeed on any Endurance Checks to overcome poison.
Powerful Magic
Mage
Your magic seems to affect even the hardiest of beings with ease. Your magic
ignores all Damage Reduction, as well as Arcane Immunities the Target of your
Spell may possess.
203

ATHIA –
Precise I
Rogue
Your most precise attacks are your most deadly. If you are successful with a Hit
Check against your target and beat their Defense by five (5) or more (before any
Stamina expenditures), you deal maximum Damage for the weapon (no need to
roll Damage, for example a medium weapon would do 6 instead of 1d6) against
the Target.
Precise II
Rogue, Precise I
As Precise I, but you also gain Advantage in the next Round on your next Hit
Check made against the same target.
Predisposed
General
You are always aware of the things going on around you and have always trusted
your gut. Your inclinations have been honed over many years and experiences.
You gain a bonus of +1 to your Instincts Attribute. This bonus cannot raise your
Attribute beyond its maximum.
Protection Devotee
Acolyte, Access to the Divine Influence of Protection
As a devoted adherent to the Divine Influence of Protection you have found
yourself granted with extraordinary powers. The following powers are granted
to a Protection Devotee:
•

Once per day a Protection Devotee may automatically succeed on any
one Valor-related Check.
• Once per day a Protection Devotee may double (x2) the range of their
Holy Aura for a Protection Influence-related Divine Intervention.
• Once per day a Protection Devotee may enact (as a Free Action) a
Divine Intervention from the Influence of Protection with a cost of 1
Favor for free.
Note: Only one “...Devotee” Ability may be taken at a time.
Pugilist I
Rogue
You can use your body as a weapon. Your limbs are considered light weapons and
gain weapon Damage of +1d4.
Pugilist II
Rogue, Pugilist I
As Pugilist I, but Damage from your limbs is now +1d6 instead of the previous
+1d4.

204

Abilities
Purebred
General
Selecting this Ability allows you to immediately select an additional Racial Perk
from your Character’s Race. For example, selecting the Purebred Ability and
choosing the Dwarf’s Dark-Born Perk would give you the Ability Purebred: DarkBorn as a single Ability choice.
Purposeful
Rogue
You have always stuck to your goals in life, and that focus has granted you
wonderful benefits. You gain one additional Rogue Specialty.
Qualified
General
You have had a rather exclusive bit of weapons training. You may pick any one
weapon from any weapon category. You are considered trained with that one
weapon.
Quick Draw
Warrior
You are fast on the draw. You can draw and ready a weapon as a Free Action, and
if armed when Surprised, may act in any Surprise Round.
Quick Healer
General
You have always recovered quickly from your wounds. You heal an additional
+1d4 Injuries with each Worthwhile Rest, and you gain twice the healing effect
from any magical means of healing.
Rapture Devotee
Acolyte, Access to the Divine Influence of Rapture
As a devoted adherent to the Divine Influence of Rapture you have found yourself
granted with extraordinary powers. The following powers are granted to a
Rapture Devotee:
•

Once per day a Rapture Devotee may automatically succeed on any one
Dexterity-related Check.
• Once per day a Rapture Devotee may double (x2) the range of their
Holy Aura for a Rapture Influence-related Divine Intervention.
• Once per day a Rapture Devotee may enact (as a Free Action) a Divine
Intervention from the Influence of Rapture with a cost of 1 Favor for
free.
Note: Only one “...Devotee” Ability may be taken at a time.

205

ATHIA –
Ravage I
Mage
Your Spells are particularly brutal. You add your Level to any Damage your Spell
inflicts.
Ravage II
Mage, Ravage I
You have an uncanny lethality with your magic. You roll any spell Damage at
Advantage. Note: Ravage I and Ravage II’s Abilities stack, allowing a Mage to roll
their Damage at Advantage and add their Level to their Spell’s Damage.
Ready And Waiting
Rogue
With a little head’s up and preparation, you can have a surprise ready. You may
perform any single Action as a Free Action once per Day.
Redirection I
Rogue
By using your enemy's strength, power, and momentum against them you can
see that their efforts to harm you come at a cost. Once per Round, when
successfully attacked, impart your Level in Damage to your opponent. This
Redirection does not reduce the amount of Damage you take.
Redirection II
Rogue, Redirection I
As Redirection I, but you may either impart your Level in Damage to your
Opponent or do half the Damage you take from their attack back to them,
whichever is greater. This Redirection does not reduce the amount of Damage
you take.
Reduced Sleep
General
You have always been able to get a good night’s sleep faster than average. You
only need four (4) hours of sleep for a Worthwhile Rest rather than the usual
eight (8) hours sleep.
Relic Antiquarian
Acolyte
You have always had a metaphysical connection to the Relics of the Divine. You
can detect the presence and the faith of a Sacred Relic while it is within your Holy
Aura. Having done so, should the Relic be of an Old Faith, you can convert a
Sacred Relic to your faith (see Magic Items for more details) and therefore be
able to use it yourself. Finally, having successfully converted a Sacred Relic, or
found a relic of your faith, you can then use that icon as a font of Favor. Sacred
Relics have a pool of Favor to draw from equal to the following breakdown:
206

Abilities
• Minute – 5 Favor
• Minor Relic – 10 Favor
• Moderate Relic – 20 Favor
• Major Relic – 30 Favor
• Epic Relic – 50 Favor
Note: Once a Sacred Relic is drained of its Favor it reverts to an otherwise
mundane (although possibly valuable) object.
Renowned
General
You are one of station, have descended from a heroic or noble line, or perhaps
simply hail from money. By name or position those around you seek to aid you in
whatever fashion they can. Food and lodging, supplies, information, aid and
assistance, and even finances equal to ten (10) silver septems per Level are
unobjectionable. You begin the game with 50 extra silver septems and have a
stipend of 1 silver septem per day.
Repeat Spell I
Mage
You are quick to adjust your magic to increase the probabilities of its success. Any
time you cast a Spell successfully, if you attempt to cast that same spell again in
the following Round the Difficulty to Cast that Spell is lowered by one (-1). Note:
The effects of this Ability are cumulative with each successful casting. Once the
Mage fails to cast the spell, the Difficulty for that Spell returns to normal.
Likewise, should it be more than a Round between castings of the Spell the
Difficulty for the Spell also returns to normal.
Repeat Spell II
Mage, Repeat Spell I
As Repeat Spell I, but the Mage no longer must be successful in casting the Spell
to gain the benefits of its Difficulty decreasing by one (-1). Note: Should it be more
than a Round between castings of the Spell the Difficulty for the Spell still returns
to normal.
Reprisal
Acolyte
Not all Acolytes resort to violence, but those who act in the name of their gods
bring with them a divine vengeance. This Ability allows an Acolyte to add their
Valor Score to their Hit Checks and Damage results.
Ritual Magic
Mage
By drawing out Arcane circles of power, drawing runes on people or objects,
burning incense, collecting blood of the sacrificed, or any number of other solemn
and ceremonious acts, you can tie the ley lines of Arcane power to your ritual
207

ATHIA –
rather than yourself. The Mage begins by casting a Spell of their choosing, and
for every point of Mana invested in that Spell, the Caster must conduct their rite
for four hours. Once complete, the Mana for the Spell no longer needs to be
maintained by the Mage. Only one Spell can be cast with a Ritual at a time.
Roar
Warrior
With a harrowing scream you cower or surprise your opponent just long enough
for you and your Allies to gain Advantage on their Hit Checks for the round. Roar
is considered a Free Action. This Ability may only be used once per Encounter.
Robust
General
You have far more in the tank than most. Gain one (+1) Stamina per Level.
Rouse
Acolyte
Through prayer, motivational cheers, or encouraging words you can spur those
around you to fight through their wounds. By spending your Action during your
turn to Rouse those around you, all those within your Holy Aura can fight without
suffering from their wound penalties for that Round. This Ability may be used
again and again so long as the Acolyte spends their Action Rousing their
comrades.
Rune Release
Mage, Runecrafter
As a Free Action you can release your allocated Mana in a Runework without
activating the Runework itself. The Runework is then considered to be no longer
powered by Mana.
Runecrafter
General, Arcane Aptitude
You know the ancient art of runecarving. You may create Runework to imbue
your magic into various items. See Runework in the Magic section for further
details.
Runemaster I
Mage, Runecrafter
You are adept at empowering your Runework. All efforts to imbue your
Runework have their Difficulties reduced by one (-1).
Runemaster II
Mage, Runemaster I
As Runemaster I, but rather than reducing the Difficulties to imbue Runework by
one (-1), you now reduce that Difficulty by two (-2). Additionally, when investing
208

Abilities
Mana into Runework for additional uses, each point of Mana provides two
additional uses.
Ruthless I
Warrior
Your consecutive hits on a Target become more and more lethal. When you
successfully Hit a Target for a consecutive time you add half your Level (round
up) to your Damage. This Ability stacks upon itself, for example, a 5th level
Warrior with this Ability hitting a Target for the second time would do +3 Damage.
Hitting the target for a third time would do +6 Damage, etc. Should at any time
you miss your Target, you must start the process over.
Ruthless II
Warrior, Ruthless I
As Ruthless I, but rather than doing half your Level in additional Damage, you now
do your Level in additional Damage. This Ability stacks upon itself, for example, a
5th level Warrior with this Ability hitting a Target for the second time would do
+5 Damage. Hitting the target for a third time would do +10 Damage, etc. Should
at any point you miss your Target, you must start the process over.
Sacrifice
Warrior
By spending less effort looking after your own welfare you can better expend
that energy on your enemies. You may lower your Defense for an Encounter to
gain additional Stamina. Each point of Defense you lower grants you 3 temporary
Stamina. Note: This temporary Stamina may increase your overall Stamina
beyond its maximum. This Ability may be used multiple times in an Encounter.
Selfish God
Acolyte
Your God looks out for you as well. You may bestow your Blessings upon yourself.
Sense Enemy
Acolyte
You can detect the presence of those who would seek to do you harm if they are
within your Holy Aura. Note: Knowing of the presence of these individuals does
not mean you know precisely where they are located (should your target be
hidden or invisible).
Shared Favor
Acolyte
You can gift your Favor to others. As an Action, you can grant up to your Level in
Favor to any single individual within your Holy Aura. This gifted Favor is still
counted as yours, and thus cannot be recouped until expended. If gifted to an
Acolyte, they can expend it as if it were their own. Additionally, it can take their
maximum Favor above its normal limit. If gifted to a non-Acolyte, it can be cast as
209

ATHIA –
though they were a Rogue (Caster level is considered one less, and their Holy
Aura is 5’ radius per Level).
Shield Fighter
Warrior
You have always trained that a shield is as much a weapon as it is a means to stop
them. Your shield has a base Damage of +1d6 and is considered a Light weapon
for your off-hand.
Shield Guard I
General
With effort you can bury the better part of your exposed body behind your shield
to withstand nearly any attack. You may cancel your Action to cancel any one
successful Attack made against you in a Round.
Shield Guard II
General, Shield Guard I
Your shield use is so skilled your opponents have a difficult time connecting with
you in battle. When using a shield your Stamina Defense Modifiers are as follows:
Shield Guard II Defense Modifiers
Stamina Cost
1
5
10

Effect
Decrease the amount of Damage received by two (2) points
Cancel a single physical Attack made against you in a Round
Cancel all physical Attacks made against you in a Round

Shield Mastery
Warrior
No one knows how to better use a shield than you. Rather than a shield offering
a Damage Reduction (DR) equal to the level of the wielder, a shield in your hand
offers a Damage Reduction score of 2+ your level.
Shield Training
General
You have spent some time behind a shield. You are considered trained with
shields. Note: All Acolytes and Warriors already possess this level of training.
Shorthand
Mage
You have a very condensed cypher all your own and can make a record that only
you can decipher. Anyone else reading your Shorthand must make a Difficult
Scholar Check to read it. Your Spells take up two less pages (each) to a minimum
of one page in your Grimoire, and it takes you half the time to write a Spell.

210

Abilities
Sharpshooter I
Rogue
Under the right circumstances, you can place your shots preciously where you
want them. Your Hit Checks with a Ranged or Hurled weapon against stationary
Targets are made at Advantage.
Sharpshooter II
Rogue, Sharpshooter I
Your shots with any Ranged or Hurled weapon automatically hit any object (not
living Targets) within Range. For example, you can shoot the rope your friend is
hanging from, shoot a lantern on a table to burst it into flame, or shoot the rigging
on a boat to drop the sail.
Sincere
Acolyte
Even the Gods themselves cannot deny your genuine appeals. You gain one Favor
following any failed Prayer attempt.
Skilled
General
One way or another you have managed to learn a bit more than those around
you. Gain four (4) additional Talent Points. Note: This Ability may be taken
multiple times.
Slam
Warrior
With a concussive strike on the ceiling, floor, or even one’s shield you can stun
your opponents. Once per Encounter you may take an Action to slam a weapon
with the Crush Designation into the ground, wall, etc. to bestow the Stunned
State to all within a 10’ radius. Note: This Ability affects all within the 10’ radius
save for the character enacting this Ability.
Smite I
Acolyte
Your god guides your hand in combat against your enemies. Once per Encounter
you may add your current Favor to a Hit Check. If this Hit is successful, you may
then add your current Favor to your Damage. Note: This Ability does not cost you
your Favor to use.
Smite II
Acolyte, Smite I
As Smite I, but you may now add your maximum Favor to your Hit once per
Encounter, regardless of your current Favor. If the Hit is successful, you may then
add your maximum Favor to your Damage.

211

ATHIA –
Soul Steal
Acolyte
When passing from one world to the next there is an energy that exists. Although
this energy is usually missed, you can tap into it with great effect. Following the
Round in which something dies, you may, as a Free Action, select one soul to
steal. Regardless of the number of individuals slain in a Round, the Soul Stealer
may only choose one soul to steal. Select one power from the list below to define
what type of Soul Steal power you possess:
•

Fortify: You steal the energy from the release of the departed’s soul to
grant all you select within your Holy Aura an amount of Fatigue equal to
one-half the Challenge Level or Level of the deceased (round up). This
gained Fatigue cannot take a Character beyond their normal Fatigue
maximum.
• Glorify: You steal the energy from the release of the departed’s soul to
grant any one individual within your Holy Aura one point (+1) of Favor.
This gained Favor cannot take a Character beyond their normal Favor
maximum.
• Vivify: You steal the energy from the release of the departed’s soul to
grant any one individual within your Holy Aura an amount of temporary
Stamina equal to the Challenge Level or Level of the deceased. These
temporary Stamina dissipate at the end of the Encounter.
In selecting this Ability, the specific capability of the Soul Steal should be noted
with the Ability. For example, Soul Steal: Glorify. Despite the number of
capabilities within this Ability, Soul Steal may only be taken as an Ability once.
Specialty Weapon Training
General, Martial Weapons Training
You have had some training with more exotic weapons. You are now considered
trained in all Specialty weapons.
Stalwart
Acolyte
You have a dedicated sense of will when it comes to enacting Divine Interventions
in combat. You may spend your Stamina to improve upon your Faith Checks. This
is done in the same manner as spending Stamina to improve a Hit Check, by
spending one Stamina point to improve a Faith Check result by one point.
Steady Aim I
Rogue
You aim small and miss small. You no longer suffer Disadvantage with Ranged or
Hurled weapons when firing at a Target engaged in melee.

212

Abilities
Steady Aim II
Rogue, Steady Aim I
Each Round you spend aiming with a Ranged weapon you increase your Critical
range by 2. For example, with a round of aiming you would roll a Critical result on
a roll of 18, 19, or 20. With two rounds of aiming, your threshold for a Critical
would be 16+ (16, 17, 18, 19, & 20). You can aim for a number of rounds equal to
your level.
Steady Runework
Mage, Runecrafter
Your Runework is exceedingly noteworthy, lasting, and capable. Any Runework
you create that contains a Spell with a Concentration Duration succeeds on any
Easy or Average Concentration Check (rather than just Easy Concentration
Checks).
Stunning Strike
Rogue
You can make a melee attack to Stun your opponent. Once per Encounter, if you
make a successful attack against an opponent, you give them the Stunned State
(see States in the Combat section for further information).
Sure-Footed
General
Once you have rooted yourself to the ground you are unshakable. You cannot be
given the Lame or Prone State.
Sustained Arcana
Mage
Instead of sleeping, you can enter a meditative state, allowing you to maintain a
Spell requiring one Mana while you gain a Worthwhile Rest.
Swift Reload
Warrior
You have a talent for keeping your crossbow bolts flying. You can expend a
Maneuver in place of one of your Actions to reload a crossbow. The following is
a breakdown of the Swift Reload Ability as it pertains to each crossbow type:
Swift Reload Table
Crossbow Type
Crossbow
Heavy Crossbow

Regular Reload
1 Action
2 Actions

With Swift Reload
1 Maneuver
1 Action & 1 Maneuver

213

ATHIA –
Switch
Mage
With a bit of effort, you can change the focal point of your Spells. While
maintaining a Concentration Duration Spell, as an Action, you can switch the
Focus of that maintained Spell. Since this is an Action, this will elicit a
Concentration Check at the next appropriate Difficulty (for this and any other
maintained Spells the caster is concentrating on).
Taunt
Warrior
You have a knack for getting attention in battle. Once per Encounter, as a Free
Action, you force your Target to face off against you for the remainder of the
Encounter. This Ability works so long as your Target can engage you.
Thaumaturge
Acolyte
You have a knack for infusing your Divine capabilities into simple tinctures,
powders, or balms. With a successful Average (12) Hermetics Check and the
expenditure of the appropriate amount of Favor, you can imbue a potion, salve,
oil, or the like with a specific Divine Effect. This Effect will only affect the item or
individual that applies the oil, drinks the potion, etc. This Favor is considered
expended the moment the tincture is created but can be replaced with an
appropriate amount of prayer.
Thick Skull
General
You are extremely hard-headed. You are immune to the Stunned State or
attempts to knock you Unconscious. Additionally, once per Encounter, as an
Action, you can headbutt an enemy to give them the Stunned State.
Thrill Of Victory I
Warrior
You feel a rush every time one of your enemies is slain. You regain expended
Stamina equal to one-half your Level (round down) every time you kill an enemy.
Note: you cannot gain more than your maximum Stamina with this Ability.
Thrill Of Victory II
Warrior, Thrill Of Victory I
As Thrill Of Victory I, but rather than regaining Stamina equal to one-half your
Level, you now regain Stamina equal to your Level every time you kill an
enemy. Note: You cannot gain more than your maximum Stamina with this
Ability.
Tireless
General
You do not get tired in battle. Gain one (+1) additional Fatigued point per Level.
214

Abilities
Tough
General
You are not injured easily. Gain one (+1) additional Battered point per Level.
Trample
Warrior
You use your mount as a weapon. If you make a successful attack against an
opponent while mounted you do Damage as normal, but your mount rolls for
Damage to the Target as well. The Target is also knocked Prone.
Tumbler
Rogue
You have developed a skill for getting around your enemies. As a Maneuver you
may attempt an Athletics Check against a Difficulty equal to the Defense of your
Target. This Athletics Check is considered a Free Action, and part of your
Maneuver. If successful, you dive, roll, or dash around them. If you use your
subsequent Action to perform an Attack against the Target, you make your Hit
Check at Advantage.
Unbreakable
General
Despite your enemy’s best efforts, you cannot be killed easily. Characters with
this Ability gain one (+1) additional Injured point per Level.
Undying
Warrior
You are nearly impossible to put down. Whenever successful on a Fighting On
When Down (see the Endurance Talent) Check, you immediately recover one (1)
point of Injury. Additionally, for the first Round you are back on your feet, you do
not suffer Disadvantage for being Injured. With the Undying Ability it is possible,
each time you are knocked into Down, to make this Fighting On When Down
Check to keep going and going.
Unremarkable
General
You have a rather non-descript face, are very common looking, or are otherwise
unassuming. Using this to your advantage, you are often overlooked and rarely
remembered. You are easily lost in a crowd and details of your description are
often vague at best.
Untouchable
General
Be it a sixth sense for danger, a knack for dodging out of the way, or perhaps even
a very tough hide you are less subject to acts of violence. With this Ability your
Defense increases by one (+1).
215

ATHIA –
Utilitarian
Warrior
Some weapons provide you more to work with than others. Any weapon you use
with the lengthy Designation is considered to have the Wieldy Designation as
well.
Valiant
Warrior
Your courage in combat is your greatest shield. As a Free Action, you can reduce
the damage you take from a single attack by half. You can do this a number of
times per day equal to your Daring.
Venerable Spirit
Acolyte
Your very essence is nearly otherworldly, leaving you with an almost supernatural
spirit. As a result, you will not rise as a member of the Sick when you pass from
this world to the next. Likewise, you are impervious to having another spirit
Reincarnated into your body. In fact, your spirit is so different from those of the
people around you that you can walk among the Sick with a Successful Faith
Check at Average (12) Difficulty (treating it much like a successful Stealth Check).
Vesting Faith
Acolyte
Turning to their faith in times of need, an Acolyte can grant hidden reserves of
strength. Vesting Faith allows the Acolyte to spend their Blessings to bestow
Stamina. Stamina is granted at a rate of 2 plus the Acolyte’s Level points per
Blessing. This Stamina remains with the Target until used.
Weapon Master I
Warrior
Your preference has led you to mastery over a collection of weapons. Choose a
type of weapon (blades, axes, bows, etc.). You now reroll any natural 1 result on
all Damage with that weapon type.
Weapon Master II
Warrior, Weapon Master II
As Weapon Master I, but you now reroll any natural 1 or 2 results on all Damage
with that weapon type.
Wild Mage
Mage
You were born to create magic on a whim. Your Spontaneous Magic costs are
reduced by two (-2).

216

Abilities
Willful Focus
Rogue
When the chips are down you have always been able to come through. Once per
day you can spend any Stamina you possess to increase the result of a Talent
Check by the number of Stamina spent.
Wizened
General
You have a constant thirst for learning and are one who truly believes that
knowledge is power. Your mind is your greatest asset. You gain a bonus of +1 to
your Knowledge Attribute. This bonus cannot raise your Attribute beyond its
maximum.
Zealot I
Acolyte
Your conviction to the will of the Gods is unwavering. You always succeed on your
initial Faith Checks for your Divine Interventions. All subsequent Faith Checks are
made normally.
Zealot II
Acolyte
As Zealot I, but now you succeed on your first two Faith Checks for your Divine
Interventions. Again, all subsequent Faith Checks are made normally.

217

